And I'm preparing this for the Science Fiction Oral History Association.
Of course, the oral history tapes on old times are important, but tomorrow morning the events
of today will be history.
I still recall in 1920, when I was in the fifth grade, the feeling of wonder and shock with
which we learned that the eighth graders upstairs were studying World War II from their history
books.
How could something we had just lived through be history?
And I understand that there are people today feeling the same shock at finding that the
sixties are in history books.
Well, out of the wisdoms us learned, I wish to give you this cassette of thoughts and
statements of very recently.
Mostly, they are thoughts I presented at meetings of the little men's, which is to say, the
elves, gnomes, leprechauns, and little men's chowder, marking, and science fiction society,
the source of the invisible little men award.
The organization was named after the social club to which belonged Mr. O'Malley, Barnabas
Farah's fairy godfather, in the comic strip by Cockett Johnson in the days between World
War II and McCarthyism.
It ended then because Johnson was reported to have had a communist past.
The earlier days, the little man published the rotomagnetic digest, of which I have been
told at least one complete set was still extant as recently as a year or two ago.
But I wasn't one of the little men at that time.
These thoughts are much more recent.
There was the time, for instance, that I reviewed Paul Anderson's Homebrew, a collection of
excellent short pieces of which perhaps the most brilliant is, Uncleavy's True Thinking,
in which he translates the atomic theory into English.
I had occasion to comment on his characterization of fascism on page 28 of the book.
I noted that anyone living today should know that the packaging is not the contents and
that the sales pitch is not the product.
Furthermore, we do know what fascism is.
Just as communism is attempts of people living under fuel regimes to move towards democracy
and industrialization, fascism is an effort to stop a people's moves into democracy and
to move them back to a medieval society.
Of course, neither effort can be fully successful.
Shortly after reviewing the book The Early Long, I had occasion to mention my earliest
memory of a work by C. L. Moore.
Since much of the earliest long and the earliest more both appeared in weird tales, this was
entirely appropriate.
Those of you who have read The Early Long may remember that the earliest long was fairly
representative of the usual contents of weird tales.
No evoking of weirdness or horror, just an assertion of it.
No real description, just an assertion of indescribableness.
A heavy reliance on slime and filth and stench and immobilization.
The murkiest of background hidden with the murkiest of prose.
But don't get the idea that all of it was like that.
There was some action prose and some true description.
For me, the high point of that came in September of 1934.
The East Bay Scientific Association was the local branch of the World Fan Organization,
the International Scientific Association.
We met at Aubrey McDermott's house that month, in fact most months.
My copy of Weird Tales hadn't come yet, but Aubrey's had.
He handed it to me, opened, and said, read that story.
So I read it to him.
It was so perfectly written that it simply flowed with no effort on my part.
It was a beautifully clean prose.
Everything was simply told, clear and clean description just told what happened, what
the characters did and said, and what happened to them, and how they destroyed each other.
It was a tale of how a defeated warrior woman escaped from the dungeon of her country castle,
went down a hole in its lowest level, and found there a world with the power of which
she came back and used.
When I finished, the members thought I had been rehearsing to read it so well,
but I'd never seen it before.
It was simply that good a job of writing.
The writer was C. L. Moore.
The story was the Black God's Kiss.
It's now in print in the best of C. L. Moore.
Another note I found in my archives is undated and also takes off from a passage written by Paul.
I probably never before mentioned it to anyone, but because I have used it to comment on the
nature of science fiction, it's worth recording.
Paul writes that it has been said that those who do not learn history must repeat it.
Ben Bova in another magazine published a little sooner, wrote that, to paraphrase Santayana,
those who ignore the lessons of history are doomed to repeat the mistakes.
I remember both endings.
The both of my versions say that those who do not or was it refused to learn from history
are condemned to, et cetera.
There is considerable difference of content here.
It makes little difference whether we must or are condemned or are doomed,
but it matters much whether we need to learn history or to learn from it,
and whether history has lessons we must learn or simply contents from which we must draw our own
learnings.
Another instructor in my department has been known to ask his student
why truth is better told by myths than by factual instruction, and this has relevance here.
It is noteworthy that the truths learned from history are never embodied in our histories,
but in our mythologies, which often then are reabsorbed into the histories
in forms designed not to purvey but to hide the truth.
However, my colleague's point has relevance here, although I do not know that he would share the
truths as I see it.
Query, for instance, often does not.
The relevance lies in the essence of the difference between fact and truth.
A fact is an idea or an understanding which corresponds to reality in the outside world.
Truth is that which corresponds to our own conceptions of the universe.
This is the appeal science fiction has for many of us, and also by many people.
Find it weird.
Often they prefer out-and-out fantasy, such as in normal mainstream fiction,
which corresponds with the truths that normal zombies of our culture are supposed to accept.
Even they know it to be unreal and escapist, and science fiction is no less so,
but at least we don't try to pretend it's real.
Then we can use it to convey truths as well as to hide through facts.
As Randall Garrett maintained at a past fan convention at San Francisco Airport,
science fiction and mythologies have much in common.
Back in February 1976, I did a review of one another of Paul's books,
so I might as well throw it in at this point.
Those of you, and I told the little men,
who are in the science fiction book club, will already have read The Winter of the Worth.
It's a good adventure story with a certain amount of intrigue more suggested than aptly described,
and because Paul is one of the more thoughtful authors, a lot of thinking do's him.
In this book, most of it's in italics, so if you want to you can skip that,
but I warn you if you do, you'll miss a lot.
Like many of Paul's longer stories, it's a little more complicated than the story requires.
In some cases that improves the book, and in others it doesn't.
In this case, it helps fill the space between the covers, which is all right,
publishers have their needs too.
It's about the Mississippi Valley and the rest of the world,
about 5 or 10,000 years into a new ice age, hence the title.
It involves an empire out of Texas in northern New Mexico, whose name is spelled R-A-H-I-A-C-D,
and I don't know whether to pronounce it R-A-E-D or R-A-H-I-A-C-D.
As I say, Paul is a thoughtful man, and being a very domesticated man,
he's undoubtedly writing his yearnings, which he shares with most of us,
when he explores the gulf between wild and domesticated animals.
And remember, domesticated doesn't necessarily mean tame.
There's a saying that in the Galapagos Islands, the wild animals are tame and the tame animals are wild.
If you want me to, I'll explain that.
Paul's explored the question before in a shorter Van Ryan story,
saying that of two groups of aliens, one was domesticated and the other was wild animals.
And Van Ryan pointed out that most of us are domesticated,
but he and his group are wild animals.
Similar considerations are given in this book in an evolutionary point of view,
and he has one thing right. Evolutionary change always starts with a change of behavior,
that is, of habits and ecology.
But I don't like his terminology.
For his aliens in the Van Ryan story, there wasn't enough information.
But for people like Van Ryan, and like the Rogoviki in the Winter of the World,
we have very precise other terms, which are better.
Wild animals are stocks which have never been domesticated,
animals which have had domesticated ancestors, but are not now under investigation
on very characteristic features, unlike true wild animals.
We say they have gone wild, and the technical term is feral.
Both the Van Ryan pack and the Rogoviki are described as feral.
They are also described as pack predators, as opposed to being herd animals.
By and large, pack predators operate from a home base,
but are not truly territorial in the sense of fixed boundaries to their land.
For the Little Man's Meeting, on Friday, November 26, 1976,
I gave a very short talk on the social science and science fiction.
Of course, the first thing I did was to say it wasn't going to be limited to that.
I told them that I had told Richard the Leader of the Meeting,
that I would say something on that subject, but when I started working on it,
I realized first that I'd be more comfortable calling it science
and behavioral sciences and science fiction, because anthropology is both,
and anthropology is how I think.
Then second, I realized that there's just not time for an organized presentation here.
So I said, I'll refer you to Pamela Sargent's Introduction to Women of Wonder,
for a very good and very well organized presentation in one aspect of the field,
which only has to be paraphrased to apply to several other aspects.
I'll make some remarks about how the relationships are in general,
not a review of specific stories, then I hope you all have questions to ask after I've said this.
Actually, they didn't have very many questions to ask.
I think they were too anxious to go and socialize at the club they go to after meetings.
So I went on to say, by the standards of today,
social and behavioral sciences are important in science fiction.
Of course, they were always important, in that the way they were handled or not handled,
made the difference between a good story and a not so good story.
Such elements are usually referred to as background and character development,
and plot handling are plot-led up, and various other aspects of storytelling itself.
And they were what makes 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea a supreme masterpiece,
and Mysterious Island, if it's sequel, just a moderately good adventure to it.
John Camel is often given credit for introducing them into science fiction,
but they were certainly present in Food of the Gods and Tarris Tarkas's revolution in
Darkian morals to say nothing of Ralph one could foresee for one's gloss.
The reason Camel gets such credit is mostly because so many writers remember that Camel
was paying a cent a word, and sometimes two cents, for stories which had some of these features,
while Fred Poehl and his fellow unfortunates on other pulps were paying from a fifth to
half a cent for stories that didn't. What they don't stop to think about is that Camel knew about
these things because Harry Bates paying two cents a word and F. Arlen Cremain paying one cent
had previously demanded that of Camel. You may object that most of John Camel Jr.'s own stories
didn't have much in the way of character development, but each of them did have something in the field
of social or behavioral science, even if social and behavioral scientists might disagree with
what he did. The readers didn't know any better, and as a matter of fact they mostly agreed with him.
The difference now is that with people like Ursula Le Guin and McCaffrey writing, the standards for
treatment of social and behavioral sciences in science fiction should now be at a higher level
than the personal prejudices of John Camel and Ben Boeba, or for that member, Jerry Brunel.
There are certain things we do know about people. We know that people tend to act in what they
consider to be their own best interests, and we know that this includes being able afterwards to
live with their consciences. We know that people tend to want to reciprocate what they get from
others. This includes revenge as much as it includes paying other obligations. We know that on the
other hand, that people tend to want to take things which are denied to them, but that they can be
taught not to do this. We know that some people are capable of great cruelty to others and that
other people raised in much the same cultures do not approve of this. There are many different
kinds of behavior which anthropologists refer to as war, but some people do not have any such
behaviors, and many people refuse to take part in. Many people write and talk about aggressive drives,
but one thing we do know is that aggression is not a separate drive, but that the word is a cover
term for various behaviors engaged in for various reasons, when, but not always when,
any drive or desire is interfered with. We also know that such aggressive urge can be inhibited,
and then may or may not turn against other targets, from the person himself to perfect strangers,
seen only at a distance. People who live in excessively polite cultures tend to be excessively
vicious in wars or in personal fumes. We know that the basic relationships between people are
mediated relationships, and that power, and hence aggressiveness, is behavior related to control
of access to resources. We know that dominance and submission are power relations, and hence also
involves such control and lack of control, but that also dominance is itself a very prized resource,
since a resource is anything anyone needs or wants or can be found into thinking he should try for.
The various commodities, for instance, which are offered by those who conduct our practices of
religion, are at times and for many people very valuable resources. Information is a most important
resource, and those who control access to it can be very powerful. It should be noted that often,
the actual practitioners in its supply do not control either the access or the supply. In our
culture, this is what advertising and publishing aren't concerned with. Because social relationships
are power relationships, and the resources required and available depend on the technology and not
only the technological level, but the technological biases of the states of the arts,
technology is very important to social organizations. However, rapid technological
change may not bring social changes so rapidly. The various fascist movements, for instance,
were efforts to reestablish feudal social relationships in a period of industrial capitalism,
and as Milavan Jilis pointed out in the book that got him in jail the first time,
the Communist and Socialist Revolution were efforts to establish industrial technology
in countries whose prevailing social structures were still feudal and economic. For these reasons,
plus those mentioned by James Gunn in this Fortress Rural, I'm very leery of stellar empires.
Rolben Bucht had a rather plausible possibility in the weapons shop universe.
Doc Smith's civilization is even more convincing. As to Glitch's fascist future,
and I've already mentioned it, the substrate culture is now gone.
To make a good story, you have to create tensions in the reader. Violence is a most
inadequate way to do this, and besides, it creates in the reader or viewer the erroneous
beliefs that violence is fun and that violence solves problems. Also, as Ben Boeva points out in
notes to a science fiction writer, slam bang action is not what we mean by conflict.
In science fiction, the main conflicts, that is to say, the tension-producing situations
are simply culture shock and future shock, especially the explorations of extrapolations
like age gold encouraged his writers to do for galaxy, and the various worlds created,
for instance, by Ursula Gwynn. These are wholly social and behavioral problems within the
spectator himself, being operated upon by what he sees in the story. One thing I like very much
about John Campbell's approach to stories was his violation of one rule of American storytelling.
Our culture places great emphasis on failure. The object of competition and testing is not to
produce winners, is to produce losers, and thus a general rule of our fiction is that a protagonist
has to go through a cycle of degradation. He's not allowed to win until he's had a few failures.
John Campbell wasn't interested in this. He was interested in winners. His writers couldn't always
go along with him, so he printed a lot of degradation cycle stories, but he didn't insist on it as
most editors do. Anthropology is the social and behavioral science that deals with groups of
people, but that still deals with them not only as people, but as whole human beings. That is why
the very best science fiction has a lot of ethnography in it, because ethnography is the branch of
anthropology which deals with societies and cultures as the beliefs and activities of individual
human beings living together as organized groups. Doc Smith was a master at this, and he did it so
well that most people don't realize he was doing it. Naturally there's lots more I could say,
but some of you may have questions, and the rest of you probably want to get out of here.
They did. Also at that time I prepared a comment on the election debates for my anthropology classes.
In the first debate I told them, Mr. Ford charged the Jimmy Carter successor, the present governor
of Georgia, had told Ford that the Medicare setup in Georgia was a shambles, and that therefore Carter
wasn't much of an administrator. The porklets didn't even realize that Medicare is a federal
program, and it's a scandal all over the United States, and that the governor was not complaining
about Carter as an administrator, but about Ford. The governor, that is the current governor of
Georgia, did try to set the record straight the next day, but he got very brief mention in the media
and hasn't been picked up by the Carter campaign either. Carter on the other hand
noted the need for a national health program, and that there were poor people he knows in
planes who had very great difficulty getting any medical care. But Carter did not. It would never
occur to him to realize there might be an intimate relationship between the poverty of those friends
of his, and the fact that the Carter family owns five and a half billion dollars worth of property
and business, none of which could exist without the presence of a reservoir of low paid, mostly
seasonal rural labor. The whole little agribusiness setup he has is completely dependent on. If they
were his slaves, he would recognize his need and responsibility, and would have health care for them
just as he has mechanics for his machinery and calls them veterinarians for his livestock. But
for over a century, no one has admitted that there is slavery in America, so his responsibility is
reduced to a tug of his heart strings and an effort to shift the burden from the county hospital
and the local property tax to the federal government so we can have a Medicare shambles for everyone
and not just for folks over 65 who have social security. Now that of course doesn't for
glance look like science fiction, but at least it's a footnote in preparation for reading some
say of James Gunn's medical future. In her excellent introduction to women of wonder,
Hamillus Argy writes on pages Small Roman Moon Rose 32 to 34,
a footnote mostly concerning quotations from Stanislaw Lem and Ursula Le Guin,
largely also concerning the status of men, women, and the people of winter.
I wrote to Hamillus Argy and Ursula Le Guin about this.
I'll quote from the letter to Ursula Le Guin. While reading his remarks and before I got to yours,
I was thinking how he fit my stereotypes for his sex cultural psychology as a Central European man.
Then when he threw in the observation that quote cultural psychological conditioning,
unquote, was more powerful in biological minds with the insistence of implicit conditioning
must necessarily be the same in chloride as in polum, despite his later statement to the contrary.
My stereotype, while I was thinking that you as a woman, even here in the free world,
had been writing of the Cthinian cycle as liberating from the tyranny of sex roles,
while Lem, as a Central European male, was responding that it made for intolerable uncertainty.
Obviously, at least for Lem, Polish dialectics has not yet achieved the Marxian ideal of
abolishing the contradiction between male and female roles, and not even the general uncertainties
which are part of life in patron-plaint societies. Or had you heard of George Foster's development
of Konigman's image of the limited good, which actually is a special case of the principle
of fixed available amounts? About what one wears in 20 Below Winds.
Stephenson said, how come he got so much credit for the few winters he spent in the Arctic,
and none for the 20 odd he spent in North Dakota? And he never saw any weather in the Arctic to
max that in Dakota. Well, how did one handle skirts in Dakota? Indian women wore raw hide skirts,
very heavy. White culture had cloth skirts, and they wore pants under them, winter woollies and
cotton or linen blumers. But it was the skirts and underskirts that showed the latter mainly by bulk.
I often wanted to write to you to tell you my opinion, which I have expressed to many others,
that you know much more about people than your father did. And quite likely, more about peoples.
I do not know how he was at home, but around the department, he was the living embodiment
of his thesis that culture operates people rather than the other way around. He was very much the
professor and very much the head of department, but still at times the vivid vital individual
would show through when we could see what status and role were being separately from the man.
Odd that he and Murdoch and White, the three who most talked that the individual was hopeless in
the hands of culture, that they probably more than any others of their generation influenced
in the role of the culture of American anthropology. But I wonder, I have one more comment on your
comments. You asked about a neuter or a non-committal program. If anyone believes that English lacks
such a pronoun, then they have forgotten how much effort their parents and teachers expended to stop
them from saying they in the singular. And speaking of winter, I hope I will be seeing you at Vancouver
next summer. Well, she wrote back saying that Lem was very charming in his letters, but that what
most people didn't realize about Lem is that he plays the European scholarly game.
I thank her for confirming my judgment of Lem. He's right in the stream of Central European Society
because the bad mannered arrogant, that is patronizing European scholarly game is not a game
at all. It's deadly serious. And I do mean life and death. It's a client making and patron
refusing behavior. The private charmingness is at home there too. It's appropriate for client keeping
and for addressing as an equal, who one doesn't wish to have respond in the client making patron
refusing style. And it's also appropriate to use to someone who really is a patron great over you.
I reported this at a little men's meeting. And I added to them, you remember what I said about
excessively polite cultures being very vicious in war or few. Well, this is a sample.
Later in that meeting, the regular speaker for the meeting was a man who had engaged in
contract physics in Europe and in America. And he commented on the cutthroat nature
of the people in academia and also in industrial jobs in nuclear physics and other kinds of physics.
And the expressions and descriptions that he used in speaking of this
were very much in line with what I just said about the scholarly game. In fact, I caught his eye
and he grinned back at me. I also just ran across a note which is dated the first of March 1970
in which I discussed with Paul at a little men's meeting soon after. In the prefatory note to the
story of the three-cornered wheel and his book, The Trouble Twisters, he quoted a advanced haul
that, and the quotation is, man the child of earth lives by certain principles which are immutable.
And quote, these are there given as Parkinson's first and second laws, Sturgeon's revelation,
Murphy's law, and a fourth law of cerebral dynamics. This latter, in my estimation, is merely a way
of stating the law of entropy. And it seems also that Parkinson's first law only applies to humans
within the orbit of civilization. That law, where folks touched by civilization, which is to say
affected by exploitation, and the others, in some degree for all folk, are human ways of making
entropy. But they're far from being immutable. They're highly variable, both in degree and in
manifestation, though they do touch most of the laws for all people, and Parkinson's first law
only for those in civilization. Two years ago at Oakland, and I understand that some other
cons around that time, a little panel of writers talking about the military mind and how
misunderstood it was by many people. It occurred to me that it was possible there might be such a
panel at Vancouver. So I wrote to them and said that it was almost impossible to answer these
people from the floor. But if there was such a panel, I would like to be on it so I could
give some words of true wisdom from the table instead of fighting for a spot from the floor.
Well, I haven't heard from them, so I don't think that I will be on any such panel.
But I did prepare some remarks. After all, I didn't know how much time I would have, so I
boiled my absolutely minimal essential presentation of about four hours that I boiled down to about
five minutes and ten seconds. I was going to start with a reference to the West Coast maneuvers of
July 1941, before the United States was officially in World War II. There were two arms, one of
regular Army units and one of former National Guard officers. The rules made so the regulars
couldn't possibly lose. They were losing, so the rules were changed to favor them still more.
And again, finally the whole thing was called off a week early just before the final devolved.
You see, all during peacetime, the War College keeps the regular Army officers trained about
what to do when war comes. The National Guard officers get some of this, but they don't take
it all that seriously, because they have to spend most of their time living in the real world,
something the regular officers don't know much about. There was one guy in my regiment who did
take it seriously, the security officer. The others didn't take him seriously, but they should have.
He was what it was all about. Well, we're right. We do make cracks about the military
and we don't see that much difference between military occupation troops and so-called peace
and the conquest troops in war. All the bodies are prettier, they shave and bathe.
In almost all societies, the organization of fighters for war parallels that of men's work
groups. In fact, they often have the same personnel, but in our society, and I include here the Soviets,
the organization of the military is like the social organization which preceded ours.
The kind of society we refer to as feudal or semi-feudal. The peasant-based societies organized
into patron-client sets, where patrons are to make the decisions and clients are first to be exploited
and second to be ordered. And to put up with that, they have to be specially indoctrinated.
As Aubrey Bermont reminded us from the audience at Oakland,
400 years and more ago, the people did not think the way we do. Our type of civilian mind was then
just beginning to rise to contest the hitherto unchallenged rule of the military line.
And then I was going to ask, if anyone in the audience knows the purpose of close-order drill.
The Russians once tried to abolish close-order drill and they found that they had no army.
Ilron Hubbard, who wrote Fear and Pipewriter in the Sky and that masterpiece Final Blackout
and Ordoch Matusula Stories, was in the military. He was a Navy commander, and one of his basic
teachings is that all authority rests upon the ability to move people about physically in space.
So, I was going to say, I'll put this in terms that at least the Scientologists here will be able
to understand. Close-order drill is an opening procedure drill to reduce calm lag between the
time an order is received and the time it's carried out. So, all this go there, do that, stop it,
do something else, go somewhere else. You see the close-order drill and you see the opening
procedure drill. It is simply to condition you to take orders without stopping to think about it.
The difference is that Scientology later teaches you how to make up your own orders and give them
to yourself, and the military never willingly lets you go. You wind up being a wind up toy,
programmed to their ideas, and you start wondering why these crazy civilians won't just bend over and
do what you think they should. And that is why we make such remarks about the military mind.
Now, I could go on with this, but I'll sum it up. The purpose of the military is not to die for
one's country. It's not even to make the enemy die for his country. It is to make the enemy live
for one's own country. That means to destroy the enemy as an independent organization. In other
words, the purpose of the military is conquest, which is to say the increase of one's own plant
set and its perpetuation. And if you want a course in the Anthropology of Peasant Base,
military administered, patron plant societies, I'll be around.
So, it occurs to me that some of the people on that panel
od me. I wasn't used to the helpless, inadequate feeling I got when I heard them on this subject.
The nearest I can recall is the way I used to feel around a certain corporal,
soon after I was first drafted into the U.S. Army. And since it's an example that shows
the nature of some aspects of this particular military mind, let me tell you.
He was a little big for his age, so he lied about his years and joined the National Guard when he
was in high school. And they double crossed him and started getting ready for war. His altitude
had been activated in October 1940, so by the time I was drafted in February 1941,
he already had four months of a nasty, muddy, Puget Sound winter under his belt.
They'd gotten some training between raindrops, and now they were training a training cadre,
and he was a corporal, and they were supposed to pass what they'd found on gas.
Well, nothing's perfect, so now and then I'd have to ask the question,
and even very seldom make a suggestion. Like, if we're going to be digging all these holes,
wouldn't it make sense, first, to set aside the turf from where the hole in the pile of dirt
are going to be, and then afterward lay it over the dirt so it won't be quite so obvious just
where the holes are? You know, I wasn't trying to show up to trainers. It's just that I wanted
my fellow draftees to have at least a minimal chance of survival if they came to that. Besides,
I'm selfish, and the more survivor types I have around me, the better chance I have of surviving
a moment. Well, this corporal was one of the snotiest of snot-willed kids. You understand,
he wasn't dumb. He really had great potential. It's just that he thought he was already there.
He was on the same floor, the same barracks, as the squad I was in. God, he wasn't my corporal.
I had a real good corporal. I really loved that. But the kid embarked on a real deliberate campaign
to humiliate me. Well, I was living it. The only one day I was over in the rec room writing a letter.
Naturally, I got a table as far back as possible and along one wall so I could see everything,
especially who came in and went out the door. Then a bunch of kids came in, including the corporal.
They had an older sergeant with me. He was from another outfit, and I'd never seen him before,
but I noticed they held him in very high regard, and he had a forest green braid on his sleeve,
which meant that in a previous military incarnation, he'd been an officer.
They took seats in the corner behind me, and I wasn't paying any attention after all of my business.
But suddenly the corporal's voice rose above the level of the conversation, and he said,
the worst kind of bullet is ricochet. Well, I know that possessed me to butt in,
but I turned around and said, the worst kind of bullet is a spent bullet. It dripped so long,
hunting. The sergeant got very excited. He said, who'd been in action? Where were you?
And I said, huh? You weren't in action. Where was it? And just about the time I began to get back
control of my lower jaw, the corporal began to realize what was happening. You lost control of his.
Well, I wish I could say that after that he was a changed character, but he wasn't.
It's just that he was no longer carrying on a deliberate campaign.
But you see what I mean about a hopeless, helpless, inadequate feeling. How do you educate brilliant,
but ignorant people who already know everything? Now, I want you to understand, though, that the
corporal's attitude was completely characteristic of the military mind, and it's documented by
numerous studies of patron clients' societies. It's especially found in situations where the
respective ranks do not very much differ. People who are clearly a patron grade have much more
effective ways to keep clients aware of the fact. People with just a little authority have to keep
fighting for it, and the methods they use are born of desperation. The fact that I didn't want his
job was immaterial. I was obviously going to be one of the first new PFCs, and he was the youngest
old corporal. To the militarized mind, he was in dire danger. I was also hoping that someone would
pick up on that remark I made about the security officer being what it was all about, and would
ask me from the audience what I meant. I had an answer to that, too. The answer is this.
You've heard it said that our army is always ready for the last previous war it was in.
In 1941, we were going to fight against Hitler's conquest of the German people,
and in France and the Low Countries and Norway, also against the Japanese conquest and those of
Mussolini. The last war our military was in at that time had not been against Germany in World War
but the interventions through Archangel and Vladivostok and in the Baltic States,
and they've never forgiven the rest of us for the war we actually had been fighting in the 19th
parties. I understand that the oral history association itself threw out of the meeting
a void big old red pearl in which Red Bull said he'd heard from me. The letter I wrote in was a
result of this statement on page two of the early poll that in March of 1933 fandom didn't exist.
I wrote variants of it to the three main promas. It never surfaced in Amazing, even though it
contained a leader commenting on the 50th anniversary issue and how Amazing, under Grinsbeck, had
actually spawned the very first fan org. Then Boba returned to postcard saying that's fandom,
and here at Analog we don't get into fandom. Galaxy, which does get into fandom, also sank the
letter to that trace. Then I wrote Algro and direct reply to that having reprinted the statement by
Paul and I've been told they printed the letter but I haven't seen that issue. Grinsbeck ran quite
a letter column and printed the addresses in full so from almost the first there was some
correspondence between the readers. Finally Ray Palmer organized it. He seems to have written to
everyone whose address had appeared. The result was the Science Correspondence Club. The magazine
began in 1926. The club may have started as early as 1928 or as late as 1929. I'm sure it was not as
early as 1927. The name was later changed to International Scientific Association. Then one
summer day I answered a ring at our door and a tall dark young man asked if my brother was on
him. Well I had three brothers but I assumed he meant the older one. Turns out that's what he assumed
too. You mean Alan I asked? No he said Clifton. It was Auburn and Brenna. The next one he contacted
was Lester Anderson and Haber. We formed the East Bay Scientific Association and the name
would never change even after we had members in San Francisco. I know it lasted until at least 1935
and maybe later. Auburn says it must have been started in 1928 because he has something about
it in my handwriting dated 1928 and it now. I know it had to be after the current organization became
International Scientific Association because we copied that name. I'm also very sure it had to be
1930 because I recall it was just after I'd come home after shipping on a tanker district in
Columbia and an old in the University of California summer session and that was 1930.
After the international organization responded, Gernsback had one of his cover picture stories
contest. I think it was the first one maybe the only one from Amazing. I toyed with trying to
write a story to Andrew but Roy Palmer wrote one and won. I believe the prize money was a hundred
dollars. He used it to buy the organization a mimeograph and put out a club or a big cosmology.
You could get quite a mimeograph for a hundred dollars in those days.
Anyway from then on the president was also editor. By 1932 Auburn was president and editor
and I was secretary and assistant editor. In passing through two or three hands something had happened
to the mimeograph. What we received from past president Eaton in Atlanta was not a machine.
Eaton swore it was just what he had received from his predecessor. The mimeograph drum was
flattened out to about a quarter circle. A flat deck was laid over it and a handle put in the middle
of the deck. This you held and leaned on while rolling the drum and stencil length of the sheet
of paper. I've seen them since for postcard size but that's the only one I ever saw for eight and a
half by eleven paper. I saw quite too much of it. Auburn saw more. I left in August 1932 to go to
be graduate assistant in anthropology at the University of Nebraska. I stopped to see some
members in Oregon and Washington and hitchhiked to Milwaukee where I made the same mistake with
Ray that Auburn made with me. The first thought I had when he opened the door was my guy,
he didn't tell me his younger brother was hunchbacked too. All the time I was there Ray was
warning me about the people I'd be staying with in Chicago. Walter Dennis was founder and president
of the Chicago Club. Ray had visited and told me Dennis's mother was German and said great store
of good food and would keep insisting I have more at meals and forcing it on me. Actually I didn't
see anything unusual and nobody forced anything on me. The Chicago Club was actually not very
active finish. They had founded an astronomy club based on the then bright new Adler Panitarium
and the astronomy club would sort of squabble the pan blow. Ray had also mentioned our one member in
Lincoln where I was going. It was one of our few girl or young women members and it seemed some
of Ray's letters had been rather glowing. Incidentally just as I always signed my name CHA,
small letter H and small letter A, Ray always used RAP, small A and small P. I think we both
started that before either of us wrote to the other. I asked my lift into Lincoln how to get to
the fans address. Why? That sounds like it's down in Russian town he said making a plane
known to want to go or go anyone down there. It seemed everyone down there spoke German.
As a matter of fact, there were in that part of town many people from Russia being well good
Germans like many of the lovers on the northern California Mendocino coast who were Lucian Finns.
Well I found the place but it wasn't well. It seemed she was recently married and her husband
had seen at least one of Ray's letters. Ray had known it as she had written to ask him not to send
any more. I can't recall whether I shamed off my beard at Milwaukee or after I got to Lincoln.
Dr. Miles J. Brewer also lived at Lincoln. His office was in the building a block and a half
from where I got a room. I never did see. His receptionist evidently didn't approve of science
fiction and let me know I was on World War One. Christmas vacation I went to Boston to visit
the other local fan club. We believed that it was older than the Chicago one but probably not as old
as East Bay. At some time briefly there seems to have been one in New York City but just when I
don't know. Maybe Connie Ruppert might know. He put out science fiction digest and I spent a couple
of days with him. He lived in South Ozone Park then in one of those hyphenated Queens addresses.
While others around Boston I visited as I recall one of the Oregon members named Ockerman
possibly with two Ns who was going to MIT. He was in nuclear chemistry. There were very few of them.
Now I guess they're all absorbed in the nuclear physics. That winter or the next one I believe
Washington University near St. Louis, Aaron Hubbard and John Camel Jr. were taking the very first
class ever given called nuclear physics. During his dianetics period Camel announced that he had
discovered that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny was a very important pangoramic phrase behind his
mind and he couldn't understand why it should be so strong in the mind of a physical scientist.
Then he remembered that he grew up in the household of a biologist. But he seems never to have made
the connection between the above facts and his lifelong dedication to the proposition
many cultural phenomena are of genetic origin. Incidentally the weather that winter was very
cold and deep snows hit just before I started. I couldn't hitchhike. I went by freight to Elizabeth
New Jersey and by a bus from New York City to Boston and back then freight back to Lincoln.
After that storm Ray wrote the East wind blew off the frozen lake and made it even colder in
Milwaukee. He took pictures of hot water to the second floor window, poured them out in front
of people coming along. The outside of the water would freeze on the way down, shatter against the
rock and a cloud of steam would rise up in front of him. On the other hand how much of that Ray
wrote me is true as questionable. Other people say he wrote them different accounts of his life at that time.
To change the subject completely, Spider Robinson's recent column on books by women
inspired me to write him quite a letter. One of the points I made to him was that I couldn't
understand why it took him so long to accumulate all those books because most of them were old books.
Even at the time, even considering how long it takes to get something published in Amazing.
However, since I wrote him the letter I've been thinking more about women writers of science fiction
and it's true. There have always been women writers of science fiction. There have always been very
good women writers of science fiction. The point is there have not been the cloud of mediocre
women science fiction writers as there has been a cloud of mediocre men science fiction writers.
Regardless of whether they use their own names or their initials or a fake name,
still for a woman to break into science fiction writing she had to be real good.
And then of course there's the recent June 1977 women's issue of analog.
He said, Ben Bovitt said that he could not get women artists. It's very strange.
At the same time this thing was on the stands, there was an issue of galaxy on the stands
with a cover and interior work by Bonnie Delzell. And oddly enough her work for that galaxy
was very very similar to the cover art and inside work that appeared by a man on the women's issue
of analog. Totally unlike other and to my eyes better work by Bonnie Delzell. And by the way
did you see the AP wire photo of the Prudhoe Bay control room for the Alaska pipeline?
I swear those two hard hats sitting there are aliens or maybe one of them's only half alien.
The names are Margus, M-A-R-G-I-S, Frechtl, F-R-E-I-C-H-T-L, and the other one is named
Blav, FunTempt, F-U-N-T-E-M-P-T. Surely those are not birth names. Maybe they were devised by Jack Vance.